## Simple 1KHz Audio Function Generator Using Standard Python In Linux...Originally published: 2011-03-01 18:33:26 
Last updated: 2011-03-01 19:37:16 
Author: Barry Walker 
 
Simple 1KHz Audio Function Generator Using Standard Python In Linux - afg.py\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\nThis code is a stand alone program to generate a signal, at the earphone sockets, of 1KHz.\nIt is a basic audio signal generator and can be used as a starter test signal source for amateur electronics\nenthusiasts testgear suite(s).\n\nIt needs /dev/audio to work; if you haven't got it then install oss-compat from your distro's repository.\n\nEnsure the audio system is NOT in use for this to work.\n\nSine, Square, Triangle, Sawtooth+, Sawtooth-, Pulse+ and Pulse- signals are generated in 10 second bursts.\nThe waveforms generated are unfiltered and therefore not "pure", but hey, an audio function generator\nsignal source, for free, without external hardware, AND, using standard Python, what more do you want... :)\nAn oscilloscope will show the waveforms generated at the earphone socket.\n\nNoise is not included but that is SO easy that I left it out FTTB.\n(This will be a future upload. ;o)\n\nAll that is required to make this a piece of audio test equipment is a cable plugged into to the earphone\nsocket.\n\nAssuming it is copied into the module(s) drawer just type:-\n\n>>> import afg[RETURN/ENTER]\n\nAnd away you go...\n\nThis is Public Domain and you may do with it as you like.\n\nRead the program for more information.\n(There will be more to come in the future... :)