## A Simple Clock, Well Maybe Not That Simple...

Originally published: 2013-07-17 17:40:17
Last updated: 2013-07-17 17:40:18
Author: Barry Walker

Hi all...\n\nDo you remember this little snippet?\n\nhttp://code.activestate.com/recipes/578079-pure-fun-for-text-mode-python/?in=user-4177147\n\nWell it was voted down, but who cares? I surely don't!\nSo to those that voted this FUN piece of Python coding down, you are now about to see what\nthe aim was.\n\nHowever although I have subsequently done what I said I would, that is, to create large digits\nas an _at_a_glance_ digital readout for a project in Python I have decided not to upload it.\nHowever I have decided to let this one go as a bash/shell script instead.\n\nIt is a nothing but a simple clock, well, maybe not that simple; but as I am into shell\nstuff at the moment I thought I would share this with you.\n\nThe terminal does have its colours changed and the cursor disabled for the session but\nI expect you big guns to be able to return back to normal in a jiffy.\n\nI am an amateur coder and if that is easy for me then you pros should have no problems.\n\nThis code is not like most of my other stuff as is NOT Public Domain...\n\nIt is only a DEMO to see what an at a glance display would look like in a terminal.\n\nMove away to a distance and see which of the two time readings you can still read... ;o)\n\nIt is for a Macbook Pro 13" OSX 10.7.5 and uses bash imode.\nIt will probably work on most Linux machines too but I haven't tested it...\n\nThis is purely a DEMO only and any other special effects, (e.g. flashing colon every second),\nalram, etc, I have already experimented with and is easy enough to do...\n\nMy intention is to use this as a kids level text mode digital voltmeter I am doing.\n\nEnjoy...\n\nBazza...\n