## A Simple Clock, Well Maybe Not That Simple...  
Originally published: 2013-08-09 18:15:09  
Last updated: 2013-08-09 18:15:09  
Author: Barry Walker  
  
BIG_TIME.py\n\nRemember this?\n\nhttp://code.activestate.com/recipes/578610-a-simple-clock-well-maybe-not-that-simple/\n\nAnd this?\n\nhttp://code.activestate.com/recipes/578079-pure-fun-for-text-mode-python/?in=user-4177147\n\nWell the Python version of the top URL has been uploaded to AMINET on 01-08-2013...\n\nNow the big gun that complained about my fun Python upload and voted it down can see\nthat this was a serious attempt ae viewing "Hello World!" in extra large xharacters.\n\nThis is the result in Python...\n\nIt is ONLY uploaded to AMINET and that is where it will stay.\n\nIf you want it then use the pointer inside code section.\n\nRemember to change the BIG_TIME.py.txt file on AMINET to BIG_TIME.py...\n\nDesigned around a Macbook Pro OSX 10.7.5 for the Classic AMIGA platforms and works\non Debian 6.0.x and PCLiuxOS 2009 using Python versions 1.4.0 to 3.3.2 inclusive...\n\nAlthough the description in the AMINET readme below is for an AMIGA environment it does\nnot take a genius to adapt it to the other platforms...\n\nBoy was this difficult to get working in a single Python script...\n\nENJOY...\n\nThis is the AMINET readme file:-\n\nShort:        A Big Digital Clock Python Script.\nAuthor:       wisecracker@tesco.net (Barry Walker)\nUploader:     wisecracker@tesco.net (Barry Walker)\nType:         dev/src\nVersion:      1.00.00\nArchitecture: generic; m68k-amigaos\n\nDistribution: Public Domain, Emailware.\n\n============================================================================\n\nArchitectures: Classic AMIGAs, E-UAE and WinUAE.\n------------------------------------------------\n\n  MINIMUM Requirements Are:-\n  --------------------------\n\n        68EC020 CPU and 2MB RAM total, example, a standard A1200(HD).\n        WinUAE Version 1.5.3 minimum. \n        Standard OS3.0x install or better.\n        Python Version 1.4.0 or higher.\n        (Also, OSX 10.7.5, Debian Linux 6.0.x and PCLinuxOS 2009.)\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\nHistory.\n--------\n\n01-08-2013.\nVersion 1.00.00:- Original upload to AMINET...\n\nThis is dedicated entirely to the AMIGA community and AMINET and will not\nbe uploaded elsewhere.\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\nTo install just download the "BIG_TIME.py.txt" file and rename it to\n"BIG_TIME.py" without the quotes. Drag this file into your AMIGA PYTHON:\nvolume and...\n\nFrom a minimum of Python Version 1.4.0 prompt:-\n\n>>> exec(open("PYTHON:BIG_TIME.py").read())<CR>\n\nAnd away you go...\n\nThis code is/was designed to work in all versions of Python from 1.4.0\nto 3.3.2 on at least the platforms shown in the Architectures: section.\n\nIt was developed entirely on a Macbook Pro OSX 10.7.5 and finalised using\nMEmacs for the AMIGA.\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\nThis is just a simple DEMO to show how to generate large digits in Python\nand put them to use as an _AT_A_GLANCE_ digital clock.\n\nIt starts up by generating all of the characters available for the DEMO\nfor five seconds then goes into the clock proper.\n\nAs this code is multi platform AND multi Python version then it is issued\nas GPL2...\n\nEnjoy finding simple solutions to often very difficult problems...\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\n                                IMPORTANT:-\n                                -----------\n\n    The Legal Stuff:-\n    -----------------\n\n    This Python script is issued under the GPL2 licence conditions.\n    The author is not responsible for any damage to, or loss of, or\n    failure of equipment or data caused in any way by the use of this\n    script. There is NO warranty with the use of this software release\n    and YOU USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK.\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\n    Testing Evaluation:-\n    --------------------\n\n    All WinUAE, E-UAE and Classic AMIGA test conditions were/are running\n    standard OS3.0x/OS3.1x and using standard ~topaz 8~ fonts throughout.\n\n    I have no idea what strange configuration setups will create so refer\n    to the ~The Legal Stuff~ above.\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\n   Contact:-\n   ---------\n\n   Mr Barry Walker, G0LCU.\n\n   Email:-     wisecracker@tesco.net\n\n   Author of the ~TestGear?~ projects in the ~docs/hard~ drawer of AMINET.\n\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n\n   A very useful HardWare related site, (C) Anthony Hoffman, for\n   modifications, schematics, repairs and the like is:-\n\n                          http://amiga.serveftp.net/\n\n============================================================================\n