###Bash Script For An Oscilloscope...

Originally published: 2013-06-19 19:06:49
Last updated: 2013-06-19 19:06:50
Author: Barry Walker

This code is the latest as of 19-06-2013. It is an AudioScope designed around a Macbook Pro 13"\nof which only has ONE microphone input. It works under Linux variants too. Read the code for\nmuch more info.\n\nIt was my way of learning Bash scripting.\n\nIt is resident here at this site:-\n\nhttp://www.unix.com/shell-programming-scripting/212939-start-simple-audio-scope-shell-script.html\n\nIt started off as a fun idea and is now becoming a very serious project.\n\nAs it stands this is fully working but it is uncalibrated and this is where it will stay on this site.\n\nAs the above site is the host then all future uploads will be there...\n\nTo do list...\n\nDC input. [1]\nDC polarity. [1]\n2 more Internal sync modes.\nExternal triggering.\nZoom facility - if possible in text mode.\nVertical calibration. [2]\nFrequency measurement. {3]\n(Others.)\n\n[1] I have simple HW built as an idea but yet to prove it...\n[2] Preliminary HW built but not yet used. Calibration SW and circuit(s) to be built into script as it progresses.\n[3] I already have a working script but not completely satisfied at it at this point...\n\nI am noing to say much else except that it has already been given a 5 star rating on the above UNIX site...\n\nAs it stands this code is entirely Public Domian and you may do with it as you please...\n\nEnjoy something completely different using Bash scripting...\n\nFinally the code defaults to a DEMO mode which requires no HW access at all but everything is still functional...\n\n__Thoroughly__ read the code for more information...\n\nAs a circuit is inside the script then it is best viewed in plan text mode.\n\nBazza, G0LCU.