## Python reader for spss sav files

Originally published: 2011-04-12 18:00:37
Last updated: 2011-07-25 18:59:49
Author: Albert-Jan Roskam

**Python Program to read Spss system files (.sav)**\n\n* ** version 2 (FASTER!) **\n* Requires spssio32.dll, which can be freely downloaded from:\nhttps://www.ibm.com/developerworks/mydeveloperworks/wikis/home/wiki/We70df3195ec8_4f95_9773_42e448fa9029/page/Downloads%20for%20IBM%C2%AE%20SPSS%C2%AE%20Statistics?lang=en\n* You can also find this dll in the installation directory of SPSS (although SPSS is _not_ needed!)\n* The .dll should be saved in the same location as this program.\n\n* Parameters:\n*savFileName*: the file name of the spss data file;\n*returnHeader*: Boolean that indicates whether the first record \n  should be a list of variable names (default: True);\n*recodeSysmisTo*: indicates to which value missing values should\n  be recoded (default: "");\n*selectVars*: indicates which variables in the file should be \n  selected.The variables should be specified as a list or a tuple \n  of valid variable names. If None is specified, all variables\n  in the file are used (default: None);\n*verbose*: Boolean that indicates whether information about the \n  spss data file (e.g., number of cases, variable names, file \n  size) should be printed on the screen (default: \n  True).            \n*rawMode*: Boolean that indicates whether values should get \n  SPSS-style formatting,and whether date variables (if present) \n  should be converted to ISO-dates. If True, the program does not \n  format any values, which increases processing speed. (default: \n  = False)\n*interfaceEncoding* Indicates the mode in which text communicated \n  to or from the I/O Module will be. Valid values are 'UTF-8' or \n  'CODEPAGE' (default = 'CODEPAGE')\n\n* Typical use:\n    savFileName = "d:/someFile.sav"\n    with SavReader(savFileName) as sav:\n        header = sav.next() \n        for line in sav:\n            process(line)\n\n* Note:\n--*New version*: If you downloaded this previously, use the current version as it is **MUCH faster!!** \n--this code currently only works on Windows (32 bits). I might make it work on Linux Ubuntu 10 at some point.\n--date fields in spss are represented as the number of seconds since the Gregorian calendar. The program converts these, wherever possible, to ISO-dates (yyyy-mm-dd).\n\nAny feedback is welcome! I'm still learning!\n