## File browser for tkinter using idle GUI library  
Originally published: 2017-04-03 13:19:41  
Last updated: 2017-04-03 13:37:34  
Author: Miguel Martínez López  
  
Idle is installed by default on windows.\n\nFor Ubuntu, Linux Mint and Debian run:\n\n      sudo apt-get install idle-python2.7\n\nA tree structure is drawn on a Tkinter Canvas object. A tree item is an object with an icon and a text. The item maybe be expandable and/or editable. A tree item has two kind of icons: A normal icon and an icon when the item is selected. To create the tree structure, it's necessary to create a link between tree items, using a parent-child relationship. \n\nThe canvas is built using a *idlelib.TreeWidget.ScrolledCanvas* class. The *frame* attribute of this object contains a *Frame* Tkinter widget prepared for scrolling. This frame allocates a Tkinter *Canvas* and Tkinter *Scrollbars*. This is the signature:\n\n       ScrolledCanvas(master, **options_for_the_tkinter_canvas)\n\nIt accepts exactly the same arguments than a *Canvas* widget.\n\nA tree item should be a subclass of *idlelib.TreeWidget.TreeItem*.\n\nThe parent-child relationship between tree items is established using the *idlelib.TreeWidget.TreeNode* class.\n\nThis is the signature for **TreeNode(canvas, parent, item)**:\n\n- *canvas* should be a *ScrolledCanvas* instance. \n- *parent* should be the parent item. Leave that to *None* to create a root node.\n- *item* should be the child item\n\n*FileTreeItem* is a type of *TreeItem*. The only argument of a file tree item is a path.\n\nHere there is an example of a custom tree item:\n\nhttps://code.activestate.com/recipes/579077-bookmarks-browser-for-firefox/\n\nTo create your own tree items, it's required to subclass *TreeItem*. These are the methods that should be overrided:\n\n- *GetText:* It should return the text string to display.\n- *GetLabelText:* It should return label text string to display in front of text (Optional).\n- *IsExpandable:* It should return a boolean indicating whether the istem is expandable\n- *IsEditable:* It should return a boolean indicating whether the item's text may be edited.\n- *SetText:* Get the text to change if the item is is editable\n- *GetIconName:* Return name of icon to be displayed normally (Icons should be included in *ICONDIR* directory)\n- *GetSelectedIconName:*  Return name of icon to be displayed when selected (Icons should be included in *ICONDIR* directory).\n- *GetSubList:* It should return a list of child items (Optional. If not defined, the element is not expandable)\n- *OnDoubleClick:* Called on a double-click on the item. (Optional)\n\nIcons should be included in "Icons" subdirectory of path to idlelib library. If you want to use other path, just change *ICONDIR* variable to path to your icons:\n\n     import idlelib\n     idlelib.ICONDIR = "Your path to your icons"\n\nRun this to find the path to *idlelib* module:\n\n     python -c "import idlelib; print(idlelib.__file__)"