## Testing Tkinter or Selenium for TkinterOriginally published: 2017-01-24 13:06:11 
Last updated: 2017-01-24 20:34:52 
Author: Miguel Martínez López 
 
This code is a little variation of my other trick:\n\nhttps://code.activestate.com/recipes/580721-tkinter-remote-debugging\n\nIt makes more easy to create tests for Tkinter.\n\nInstall rpyc:\n>    pip install rpyc\n\nSave the code below to a file named for example tkinter_selenium.py.\n\nThis is the usage:\n>    python tkinter_selenium.py [-h] [-p PORT] filename\n\nwhere filename is the path to main file of Tkinter application, and port is an optional port number for the remote interpreter. Otherwise it uses default port.\n\n\nThen in another python interpreter you can interact with the application. For example, write:\n\n    import rpyc\n    c = rpyc.classic.connect("localhost")\n    c.execute("""\n    from Tkinter import Button, Toplevel\n    import tkMessageBox \n\n    responsive_button = Button(Toplevel(), text="It's responsive", command = lambda:tkMessageBox.showinfo("alert window", "It's responsive!"))\n\n    responsive_button.pack()\n    """)\n\n    responsive_button = c.eval("responsive_button")\n    responsive_button.invoke()\n\n(This example only works for Python 2. For python 3 use "tkinter" instead of "Tkinter" and so on)\n\nUse port keyword argument to *"repyc.classic.connect"* if you want a different port number than default port. For example:\n\n    import rpyc\n    c = rpyc.classic.connect("localhost", port=8000)\n\nFor the selection of tkinter widgets, I have this other trick:\n\nhttps://code.activestate.com/recipes/580738-tkinter-selectors\n\nUsing this remote debugging utility and selectors makes easy to test tkinter applications similar to selenium.\n\nThis utility could be used not only for Tkinter applications. It could be used also for wxpython, pygtk and pyqt applications.\n\nNOTE: Interact with remote application using python of same version. If the application is running using a Python 2 interpreter, use a python 2 interpreter for remote interaction. Similarly use a python 3 interpreter for remote interaction with a python 3 application.